# UnityAStar
Just learning to use Unity by programming A* pathfinding over a grid.

A* is an algorithm that I've been programming since I started college. It's a fairly simple pathfinder that is also quite performant for general use. A while back I decided that it would be a good algorithm to help me learn new languages. A* is simple enough that it can be implemented in a couple days, while complex enough to touch on several different aspects of a language from how classes work, functions are used, to what data structures are available in the language's standard library. 

This version of A* did take a while longer to get working the way I wanted it to becuase I was also messing around with what I could get Unity to do. I learned quite a lot during this project which was the main goal after all. The most useful topic I learned was a beginning to understanding the different UI elements available in Unity. Specifically, I learned that every UI element requires a canvas, as well how to link toggle boxes into a group to create radio buttons. I do want to change the background image on the buttons to make them look more like radio buttons, but that's for a different project possibly. I also need to figure out how to add event listeners to buttons/classes. That would make my code a lot cleaner compared to the if else statements that I'm using right now. I know that it's possible, but I have yet to find a good tutorial on how to properly attach listeners. It's likely that it has to be done from code for procedurally generated content such as the grid map I'm using. 

This project also helped serve to get my development environment set up properly. Before this I didn't have Visual Studio Code properly configured to interface with Unity all that well, but after doing a semi-complex project like A* I did have to spend some time getting a debugger properly setup. I also got around to messing around with gizmos and the debug classes as well which will help with debugging and rendering information in the future. 

Overall, this turned out to be a rather nice introductory project to Unity. I learned a lot of the basics that I need to continue on into the future. There are some things I would like to add to this though at some point. First, have a toggle to show the results of different heuristics. There are three more heuristics I would like to add aside from Octile Distance. First, Euclidean Distance; this is likely the most common heuristic used by many people when considering what heuristic to use since it is the most straightforward heuristic available. Manhattan Distance is also a common heuristic. More suited towards a 4 directional graph, Manhattan distance will overestimate the distance, causing A* to flounder and possibly consider a non-optimal path. Finally, Manhattan distance is still strictly reducing, but adding a non consistent heuristic (absolutely terrible idea) should be able to demonstrate a weakness of A* being that it requires a good heuristic to function properly. I want to add all of these heuristics to toggles next to the selection toggle group as well.

I also want to add more pathfinders. BFS, DFS, and Dijkstra are the ones that come to mind, but Jump Point Search would also be interesting to get working properly. By modularizing the approach it also becomes possible to mix and match pathfinders with different heuristics to see how they act under different circumstances. However, these are all things that I can come back to later now that the implementation itself works. 
